The problem in understanding social economics or politics in general is that there are just too many different terms used to describe social economic philosophies or one’s positions on politics that the concepts get confusing.  It’s as if each nuance in a social economic system or political position warrants a completely new definition or characterization based upon that nuance.   However it’s not confusing at all and I have broken social economics down into three simple areas and their concerns; the three areas are simply the ‘individual’, ‘society’ and ‘defense’.  The concerns are 1, the individual incentive to become a productive member of society; which is either cooperation or competition, 2 the social policy that govern the relationship between individuals when disputes erupt; either the administration of justice or the rule of law and 3, upon whom dose the responsibility for defense fall; either army or militia.  It couldn’t be any simpler than that; 1, 2, 3, and it’s always been and will be that way.   It might not seem that all social economic concerns can fit into such a simply assessment of things but it can.  In fact using this simple assessment I can explain what the ‘deep state’ is and how it must be addressed.
First I must present my platform: Empada is a word I contrived and to aide in my simplification and I present the following axiom to help follow in my assessment of the subject.  As intelligence is the ability to discern the similarities between things that seem different and the differences in the things that seem similar a rose by any other name is still a rose.  
Empada consists of three tenants.  The first is presented as a hypothesis that can be experimented with scientifically to determine whether in fact ‘liberty’ is created out of nothing.  The second is a ‘social policy’ to foment justice, and the third the defensive strategy for the successful defense of all or everybody.  Together they constitute the slogan of “Liberty and Justice for All”, a social economic policy that we all have already pledged allegiance to.
The first tenant is:  “Profit is created as individuals cooperated and reduce the time it takes to complete the necessary tasks that sustain their quality of life or standard of living.  This provides them with free-time, freedom or liberty, which is what we pursue happiness with.  
The Second tenant is: “Profit must be equitably distributed, the governing policy otherwise known as the administration of justice.
The Third tenant is: that all are welcome to join our union in pledging allegiance to our mutual defense.
Empada represents an alternative social economic philosophy opposed to capitalism, our political or national identity slogan of Liberty and Justice for all and/or most importantly the social economic system of a “House” as opposed to the social economic system of a “Kingdom” and it is in understanding the difference between a house and kingdom that the solution to our social economic problem rests.  
Profits, although simply a ‘formless time equation assessment’, can be accumulated in representation thereof, measured and stored.  
The accumulation of profit has taken different forms over time.  Initially it took the form of none-perishable food items; particularly, grain in ancient Egypt, Africa and Europe, rice in the Asia, corn in North America, and potatoes in South America.   Recognizing that to facilitate trade as a medium of exchange the representation was more important than the immediate need to consume the good the representation took on the form of metals due to the none-perishable nature of them and then precious metals due to rarity of them.  Today because the representation as a medium of exchange is all that is truly necessary to facilitate trade that representation of accumulation went from ‘paper money’ to simply a digital representation of a measurement stored in a computerized system, while the concept of ‘consumer goods’ is still with us.   The fact it doesn’t matter what form the accumulation takes as long as it’s recognized as an acceptable medium to facilitate trade, however there’s a problems involved with having a single medium whereby a small group of people can manipulate the medium, so there probably a need to have than one medium form of accumulation.
The measure of profit is a mathematical formula of accounting responsible for the development of mathematics, balances, governance, law and equity etc.  It’ a social or human construct in recognition of the reality that surrounds us leading to a distinction between law and equity otherwise known as justice.  Justice might often be seen as a balanced in the distinction between the physical and metaphysical or the quality of life and the standard of living; yet its distinctive quality is that it resolves conflicting interests.  
The storage of measurable profits is a natural outgrowth of its accumulation and it accumulation an outgrowth of the pursuit of happiness.   Often the pursuit of happiness requires more than one has and therefore one needs to save up or store what one has to accumulate more before the pursuit of happiness can be achieved.  This can be seen in everyday live as one saves up to go on vacation, for Christmas or go into a business venture.   Consequently although the defense evolved in the storage of profits is the outgrowth of our current problem, its storage will always be necessary, however it is the defensive strategy of accumulated measurably stored profits that create such envy as to be deemed ‘wealth’ that spawned the treasonous process we call the ‘deep state’ today. 
Wealth is the accumulation of profits that inspires envy requiring defense.  Certainly if mankind could rid itself of envy it might rid itself of the need for defense; however that’s not likely, particularly as those accumulating wealth desire it be envied.  As the ‘most-base’ form of defense comes down to a force of arms, the force of arms or might is the most basic defense, although not the only means of defense as stored wealth can be stealth-fully defended or secreted.  If the force of arms is means of defense relied upon then that means if one is not ‘mighty’ when the mighty know where it is stored un-stealth-fully, or one must or desires to display or transfer it from one place to another one is defenseless against might.  Consequently one must often ‘employ’ the mighty or armed to defend their wealth.  Yet as one employs arms to defend their wealth the payments deplete the wealth that is meant to be conserved if one desires to remain wealthy and the greater the employment the greater the depletion until the armed end up with the wealth themselves.  This has to be the genesis of the kingdom and the king thereby knew that in order to conserve one’s wealth one must devise a means of employing the armed without depleting the wealth that is meant to be conserved.  This is true ‘conservatism’.  This is the dilemma that the wealthy have always faced.  So the wealthy get others to pay for the defense of their wealth through taxes, which they justify by political ploy as no one would willingly pay to protect somebody’s else’s wealth.  Another means of paying the armed or army is to allow the army to go about looting neighboring communities thereby paying themselves and making territorial gain.  At any rate using either technique or a combination of both will inevitably lead to the social economic system known as a kingdom; and as a rose by any other name is still a rose, it doesn’t matter what you call it, monarchy, oligarchy, empire, serfdom, or principality.  They would have you believe that they are in search of the ‘super solder’ or a man who can fight without fear, compassion, regret or pain, but what they really want is a man who will fight on their behalf without getting paid or even better those who will fight and pay them.   
I surmise that the kingdom as a social economic philosophy is an outgrowth of the attempt to ‘conserve’ the wealth of the wealthy and although a kingdom can ‘expand’ or grow wider in its acquisition of land, the ‘conservative’ philosophy just addressed inhibits social economic growth within its borders.  Consequently although kingdoms  dominated ‘western society’ for thousands of years social economic growth merely went from the horse driven chariot of Egypt to the horse drive buggy of Europe.  Yet over the past 200 years social economic advancement went from the horse driven buggy to the moon.  What’s responsible for that?  Western ideology says it’s the result of the industrial revolution, which was simply the evolutionary outgrowth of European superior intelligence held back for a time but now in full blossom.  I contend however that it’s due to the difference between the social economic system of the ‘house’ that Americans used to temporarily break away from and the ‘kingdom’ and that we can again use that system to break away again once we know what’s happing and what to do about it.
The difference between the social economic philosophy of a house and a kingdom is simple.   The kingdom is motivated by competition with the ‘individual or individuals’ most mighty or clever becoming king or the elite.  Its governing ‘social policy’ is the rule of law, which is necessary to maintain law and order and avoid chaos within such a competitive environment.  Its ‘defense’ relies upon a specialized division of labor of professional killers known as an army that is supposedly skilled in the principles of ‘leadership’ with the king as its supreme leader and whom sole purpose is defending or conserving wealth.  On the other hand a ‘house’ is motivated by cooperation, governed by the administration of justice or judges and defended by a commitment of the entire citizenry, otherwise known as a militia; in The United States of America it was ‘we the people’ being committed to giving the full measure of our devotion to mutual defense.   
So as a rose by any other name is still a rose, if we are intelligent enough to discern the differences between the things that seem similar and the similarities between the things that seem different, consider; we live in a capitalism system that inspires competition allegedly to generate greater individual productivity, yet keep us divided or un-united.  
Our governing social policy is openly said to be the rule of law deemed necessary to maintain law and order, else we fall into chaos due to the competitive nature of our society, and that our defensive strategy is reliant upon our complete submission to authority believing a specialized group of people skilled in the principles of leadership are looking out for our best interest.  On the other hand all the official documentation of this nation clearly expresses that this nation was founded upon a sprite of cooperation to ‘form a more perfect union, that our governing social policy is the administration of justice, as signified by the official oath of our judiciary 
Each justice or judge of the United States takes the following oath or affirmation before performing the duties of his office: “I, ___ ___, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will administer justice without respect to persons, and do equal right to the poor and to the rich, and that I will faithfully and impartially discharge and perform all the duties incumbent upon me as ___ under the Constitution and laws of the United States. So help me God.”  
and that our defensive strategy relies upon our mutual defense as signified by our declaration of independence where by its signatories stated on behalf of ‘we the people’ stated that “And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of Divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes, and our sacred Honor” /and as well the second amendment to our constitution that states “A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed”.   
It’s 1, 2, 3; we were lead to expect, cooperation, the administration of justice and mutual defense and what have we got is competition, the rule of law and taxed in support of the army.  So as a rose by any other name is still a rose we are still living under the rule of the kingdom.  
Isn’t there something wrong with this picture?  How did we get here?  Well let’s take a little walk and you’ll find the answer staring you in the face; hidden in plain sight.  I say the secret is in the “House” as a ‘historic’ social economic system,  yet there appears to be no history of a social economic system known as a “House” as no one else has ever considered a ‘house’ a social economic system other than me.  
Let’s start with the ‘White House”; well that’s just were the President lives, it’s his abode.  The term Pharaoh means “Great House”; well he must have lived in a large Palace, his abode.  What about the “House of Representative” The House of Commons and the House of Lords; well they abide in the Capital and Parliament.  Yet there’s an elephant in the room; The “House of Winsor” The House of Orange the House of Rothschild and many other houses throughout the royalty of Europe.  And we can assume that they members are in cooperation with each other, when conflict arises that they administer justice rather then submit to any rule of law, and that they are committed to their mutual defense; well that’s just an assumptions!!!  
Fact is not only is there an elephant in the room, it’s a complete zoo.  The bible is the most read book in history and even Islam is aware of the story of Abraham, the patriarch of Judaism.  Abraham was told to leave his ‘father’s house’, was that just his abode? No! Abraham had 318 trained killers born in his house, who went with him to rescue his nephew Lot while his wife was barren and they lived in a tent.   When Abraham went to Egypt he sent his wife into the house of Pharaoh, so he knew what Pharaoh’s judgment would be beforehand because his wife was sleeping with the judge; what we now call insider trading.  Abraham refused to accept the ‘award’ of having defeated the three kings that had his nephew Lot and who had just defeated three other kings, which would have been the ‘subjects’ of six kingdoms, making him a king.  The king of Sodom and Gomorrah having himself been defeated and humiliated was never able to reestablish law and order within Sodom or Gomorrah lost control to chaos such that any sober citizen had to leave as to look back would turn them to stone.   Having passed his insider knowledge of the inner working of the Egyptian House down to his great grandson Joseph, when Joseph was sold into slavery by his brother’s Joseph was able to us his knowledge to survive and thrive in Egypt until the Pharaoh actually placed him charge of the ‘army’ and the collection of taxes, under the ruse that the king had predicted famine in his dreams as interpreted by Joseph.  After collecting taxes from a citizenry that hadn’t been paying taxes or having paid slight tax famine was inevitable.  Then as famine hit Joseph then sold the grain collected back to the Egyptians at a profit until Pharaoh owned all the valuables and property in Egypt; whereas after he was known as King and Pharaoh.  Now there came a time when the king didn’t know Joseph or the fear he had inflicted on preceding generations and therein enslaving the Israelites for 400 years.  Now Joseph and his brother and their wives and his sister didn’t inter breed for 400 years; they had a social economic system that existed within Egypt for 400 year and came out intact with Moses; and that system was known as a “House”, governed by judges and committed to mutual defense.  The practically the entire old testament is committed to telling the story of how this “house” was formed, endured, was turned into a Kingdom by corrupt judges and the consequences thereof.  It even explains how the commitment to mutual defense was washed away as the king became committed to the  defense of his wealth and attempted to get the people’s commitment to mutual defense restored; the failure thereby and the people becoming subjects to a foreign king, meaning a king outside their household.  Consequently I did not “invent” the concept of a House as a social economic system!!! It’s been sitting right in front of our faces all the time.
Lincoln said that a House divided cannot stand.  As politicians make each issue divisive they destroy our house.  As they pass laws requiring us to adhere to the ‘rule of law’ they destroy our house.   As our judiciary adheres to the ‘rule of law’ rather than the administration of justice it destroys our house and as we leave ourselves defenseless dependent upon a select group of armed authoritarians to protect us it destroys our house.  No armed bank robber would enter a bank full of armed men and women committed to mutual defense intent on robbing it as it would be suicidal.  Looking back in history take the James–Younger gang attempted a raid on the First National Bank of Northfield, Minnesota. The robbery quickly went wrong when the citizenry arose to stop the robbery and after the robbery only Frank and Jesse James remained alive and free.  
